There are various advance features in an IDE(integrated development environment)

User-Friendly Interface
Code Debugging Tools
Language Support
Extensibility
Version Control Integration
Code Autocompletion
Built-In Terminal
Code Analysis and Refactoring



User-Friendly Interface:The interface should be user-friendly, and attractive. A development environment with confusing interface can hamper your productivity and increase frustration.

Language Support:Whether you're a Python guru or a Java aficionado, having an IDE that accommodates your preferred language is essential

Code Debugging Tools:Bugs are an inevitable part of software development,a code debugger is, which enable you to walk through your code easily, pinpointing and resolving problems.

 Extensibility:Look for IDEs that support plugins or extensions like verification tools, common messengers, templates, etc.his feature lets you tailor your development environment by adding or removing functionality as per your requirements.

 Version Control Integration:An IDE integrated with version control systems like Git can streamline the development workflow. It allows for easy code sharing, tracking changes, and managing collaborative projects.

 Built-In Terminal:Switching between your IDE and a separate terminal window can disrupt your workflow. With an IDE that includes a built-in terminal

Linting:
it is a process of the text highlighting when coding if we encounter any errors and the brief is given below]:-
Linting is a process for identifying bugs and stylistic errors in your code. The process is carried out by analysis tools called ’linters’, which are widely available for every major programming language. Linters will flag issues and style violations in your code, sort of like a spell checker!
some of the features of linting?
Debugging: A really nice feature of linters is the ability to flag bugs in your code without needing to run it (static analysis). Plus, readable code is much easier to debug!
Consistency: In a large coding project consisting of many scripts, it helps to use a consistent style throughout. This can be especially challenging when working with a large team. Incorporating linters into your workflow (pre-commit, etc) will be a big help!
Self-improvement: Getting into the habit of regularly checking your code for stylistic errors will make you a better programmer. Over time you will find that you are becoming less reliant on linters!
Readability:it makes the code more readable and easy to understand,more over the code which is randomly writen will e not good-looking 


Pylint,Flake8
Pylint: looks for errors, enforces a coding standard that is close to PEP8, and even offers simple refactoring suggestions.
Flake8: wrapper around PyFlakes, pycodestyle and McCabe; this will check Python source code for errors and violations of some of the PEP8 style conventions.
It should be noted that Flake8 does not, by default, look for as many PEP8 violations as Pylint (unless you install some plugins). However it can still be beneficial to work with both linters in your project, as we will show below.

Flake8
Flake8 is a Python linting library that basically wraps three other linters, PyFlakes, pycodestyle and Ned Batchelder’s McCabe Script. It’s one of the better linters out there that has very low false positive rate. It checks your code base against PEP8 programming style, programming errors (like “library imported but unused” and “Undefined name”) and cyclomatic complexity.

Black
Black is known as the uncompromised Python code formatter. Unlike flake8 or pycodestyle, it doesn’t nag you when there are style inconsistencies. It just fixes them for you. Black does not have a lot of options to tinker with and has a lot of opinion on how your code should look and feel. You might not always agree with the decisions that black takes for you but if you can get along with the style that black imposes on you, it can take care of the unnecessary hassles of formatting your codes to keep it conistent across multiple projects or organization.




Challenges in Debugging
There are a lot of problems at the same time as acting the debugging. These are the following:

Debugging is finished through the individual that evolved the software program and it’s miles difficult for that person to acknowledge that an error was made.
Debugging is typically performed under a tremendous amount of pressure to fix the supported error as quick as possible.
It can be difficult to accurately reproduce input conditions.
Compared to the alternative software program improvement activities, relatively little research, literature, and formal preparation exist in the procedure of debugging.

Backtracking
This is additionally a reasonably common approach. during this approach, starting from the statement at which an error symptom has been discovered, the source code is derived backward till the error is discovered. 

Cause Elimination Method
In this approach, a listing of causes that may presumably have contributed to the error symptom is developed and tests are conducted to eliminate every error.

Program Slicing
This technique is analogous to backtracking. Here the search house is reduced by process slices. A slice of a program for a specific variable at a particular statement is that the set of supply lines preceding this statement which will influence the worth of that variable.




Key Bindings:
Each key binding requires two keys, "keys" and "command". To pass args to a command, the "args" key should be specified.The "keys" value must be an array of strings, where each string contains a key press, comprised of a key and any modifiers. 
eg={
    "keys": ["escape"],
    "command": "noop"
}

Menu:
DOCUMENTATION TOPMenus
Menus in Sublime Text are defined by files ending in .sublime-menu. Menus use JSON, with the top-level structure being an array. Each binding is a JSON object containing information to define the text of the menu entry and what action it should perform.

Example

Entries

Available Menus

Adding to Submenus

Customization

Example
The following is an example of the format of a .sublime-menu file.

[
    {
        "caption": "File",
        "mnemonic": "F",
        "id": "file",
        "children":
        [
            { "command": "new_file", "caption": "New File", "mnemonic": "N" },

            { "command": "prompt_open_file", "caption": "Open File…", "mnemonic": "O", "platform": "!OSX" },
            { "command": "prompt_open_folder", "caption": "Open Folder…", "platform": "!OSX" },
            { "command": "prompt_open", "caption": "Open…", "platform": "OSX" }
        ]
    }
]
Entries
Each menu entry is a JSON object with one or more keys. The list of supported keys includes:

"caption"
The text of the menu entry.

"mnemonic"
The character to use as the key to press to activate the entry. Only applies to Windows and Linux. Must match the case of the character in the "caption".

"command"
A string of the command to execute when the entry is activated.

"args"
A JSON object of args to send to the command.

"children"
A JSON array of entries to create a submenu from.

"id"
A unique string for the menu entry. Used for menu entries with "children" to allow adding additional child entries.

"platform"
One of the strings: "OSX", "!OSX", "Windows", "!Windows", "Linux" or "!Linux". Controls what platforms the entry is shown on.

Each menu entry requires at minimum, the key "caption" for a non-functionality entry, or "command" for an entry that performs an action.

Available Menus
Sublime Text has seven menus that may be customized:

Main.sublime-menu
Primary menu for the application.

Side Bar Mount Point.sublime-menu
Context menu for top-level folders in the side bar.

Side Bar.sublime-menu
Context menu for files and folders in the side bar. Has “magic” args for passing file and folder names to commands.

Entries with an arg "files": [] will be enabled for files and will pass file names to the command via the arg files. Entries with an arg "dirs": [] will be enabled for folders and will pass file names to the command via the arg dirs. Entries with an arg "paths": [] will be enabled for files and folders and will pass file and folder names to the command via the arg paths.

Tab Context.sublime-menu
Context menu for file tabs

Context.sublime-menu
Context menu for text areas

Find in Files.sublime-menu
Menu shown when clicking the ... button in Find in Files panel

Widget Context.sublime-menu
Context menu for text inputs in various panels. Technically this file name can be changed via the context_menu setting inside of Widget.sublime-settings.*




